---
layout: post
title: Reflection on "What it Means to Be Well-Educated
excerpt: A personal take on defining the term well-educated in our current society.
author: sara-thompson
pullquote: In a world where being educated means everything, what does it mean to be well-educated?
---
<p>In a world where being educated means everything, what does it mean to be well educated? Current society tends to think that to be well-educated, you have to have the best of the best. You have to attend a well-known school, obtain advanced degrees, score well on standardized tests, and know everything there is to know. In “What Does it Mean to Be Well Educated”, Alfie Kohn urges his readers to rethink their definition of a “well-educated person”. Instead of generalizing the term and giving it one simple definition, he suggests that we allow “well-educated” to be defined individually. When we look at it, each person qualifies differently: some people define it through attending top schools, while others define it based on whether a person continues to learn and educate themselves throughout their life. Furthermore, someone else could even define it based on the career or power that they hold in society. Ultimately, Kohn wants his readers to understand that the term “well-educated” is subjective, and we must allow it to stay that way.</p>
<p>Kohn empathizes with his readers and understands that what we typically view as “well-educated” makes sense, but he challenges them to think differently by presenting them with the same real-life example he saw, his ex-wife. Kohn mentions that even after 29 years of school, his ex-wife still does not have the best grasp of grammar, basic mathematics, and literature. Pieces of education that many people consider critical. She instead knows a plethora of information about the medical field, the human body, and other crucial information to be a successful physician. When we look at doctors, lawyers, teachers, or engineers, we automatically assume they are intelligent and knowledgeable, but if we knew that they didn’t even know grammar would we look at them the same? Kohn’s goal of “What Does it Mean to Be Well Educated” was to push the reader to look at education from a different perspective.</p>
<p>In the article, he took his time to carefully analyze and dissect the parts of what is considered a piece of being well-educated. He gives them credit where credit is due but he also demonstrates the complexity of human nature and how when it comes to education we simply cannot use a one size fits all approach. Kohn also addresses the fact that there are people that are well-educated that can check all the boxes that we have standardized in education, while there are many others that don’t, and that’s normal. </p>
<p>As I read through this article, I caught myself contemplating what I personally think it means to be well-educated. The importance of education and learning varies from person to person, and I find it to be very important. Simply because I find education to be valuable, doesn’t mean that I feel as though people who didn’t seek post-secondary education or attend top schools are not well-educated. My childhood best friend made the decision last year to not attend college, yet she is very intelligent and is someone I consider to be well-educated. My opinion of her didn’t change because of that decision, but a lot of other’s opinions did. In the town where I grew up and the high school I attended the question was never if you were going to college, it was where. Everyone expected to follow the same path and go learn in more classrooms, but my best friend decided she wanted real-world education.</p>
<p>In our society we try to classify education through standardized test scores, grades, memorization of facts that honestly we rarely use again, and following rubrics. Being well-educated in its current state means checking boxes, yet all of us don’t fit into those same boxes. I sat through countless standardized tests, and although I scored well on most, I felt pressured to do even better. My score was never good enough, and it was literally one single test with a bunch of questions including information I had yet to learn in my classes. Specifically to prepare me to sit for AP exams come springtime, my teachers taught me how to manipulate the scoring, guess well, and scrounge around for as many points as possible. They knew that they had taught us all the information that they needed to, but they also knew that ultimately that test was going to have questions that simply didn’t correlate. Is this a fair way to assess students? Does that even prepare them for the world? This approach to education is exactly what Kohn was trying to address in “What Does it Mean to Be Well Educated”. </p>
<p>All of this is to illustrate that I agree with Alfie Kohn. We need to reform the way we view education and being well-educated, instead of slotting people based on their test scores, where they went to school, or how long they have been in school. Just because you’ve been in the classroom longer, doesn’t mean you have retained any more information than the next person. We can’t hold everyone to the same standards.</p>
