---
layout:post
Title:Virginia Wolf Blog
excerpt: "A Room of One's Own"
Author: Virginia Wolf
pullquote: "What Does it Mean to be Educated"
---
The excerpt of Virginia Wolf’s “A Room of One’s Own” is a very complex article that goes over the hardships and struggles that female writers and actors faced during the Elizabethan era. She really dives deep into how societal preferences basically set women up for failure, especially when trying to make it into the acting industry or the writing field as well. I believe that her overall message is that society was heavily influenced by mass opinions and affected the opportunities for women in particular and allowed for males to become more powerful causing more societal issues along the way shaping how they view roles and intelligence. She goes over the importance of money and hints that it prevents women from having a room of their own. Since money was basically power and women didn’t have either during this time their creativity had almost been washed out throughout the years. The author also seeks the essential truth but later comes to the conclusion that no such truth exists. She talked about a subject being highly controversial and one can only show how they came to that specific opinion and not the truth. Her overall thesis is that there is a prominent underinvestment of society in women’s education and a shortage of opportunities for women to tell their own life stories and with that comes the need to have intellectual and financial freedom to write. She also uses Shakespeare a lot and references many other professors quoting them and relating their mindsets to how societal opinions have been shaped over time. 
1.	The importance of financial freedom and money- without it, women will remain underneath the more creative males and opinions will continue to generate in the male favor. More access to writing material with more money as well as writing novels instead of poetry. Overall, giving the sense that they were poor and less successful writers at the time.
2.	The subjectivity of truth- Most people only show opinions that they have been accustomed to whether they know it is the truth or not. If society goes one way the rest will most likely end up following. She wants to demonstrate the idea that an opinion is very provable while fiction is more likely to contain truths over provable facts. Which is why women shouldn’t have been held back just from opinions because their writing could’ve expressed and contained much more than just opinions.
I understood Virginia Wolfs main message and her overall themes at which she presents to us in a complex way. I feel like her approach to this topic and situation was very unique and touching because it’s almost as if she put us in that era and we were in a woman’s shoes of that time. Stuck without opportunity just because of society’s opinions and role placement. I totally agree with what she says from the beginning to the end of the excerpt, and she brings up really good points and arguments throughout. What was interesting to me is when she brought up that parents of this era would frown upon their daughter’s education or belittle them when they write or read or do anything of that nature. It just surprised me because it’s hard to think that parents would actually do that or say that to their kids. But society does include everyone and if everyone was raised like that and around the same system of course its going to be hard for the females to get anywhere they wanted to go. I feel like I can relate this to our generation and the world we live in today. Even now societal opinions heavily influence decisions of people and if a parent were to raise their child right now and teach them to shy away from writing, acting, poetry, and creating, the kid would most likely turn out to be less intelligent then his or her peers on top of not being able to have said opportunities because of their lack of skills and basic knowledge. I like how Wolf started off explaining how women weren’t allowed to do anything, but the societal role given to them but then goes off into explaining what would happen if they were given the possibility to write. In that time and era, it was so heavily influenced and determined that even if a women escaped her household to try her dreams of acting, or writing, or etc. she would still be denied immediately upon her arrival. I like how she took it to this because that’s what I was thinking about when I was reading the first part of her excerpt. I was thinking about what women would have been able to do if given the opportunity or if they were to escape societal norms what would the men have done. Would they try and stop the women from sharing power? Would they slowly allow women to do these educational practices? She answered both of these questions quite thoroughly as she explained that the average woman’s life was spent fighting for freedom no matter what it came down to. Overall, I agree with Wolfs claims and conclusions as she does at the end with a call to action where she wants all women to create legacies for their daughters. She believes that fiction is a good thing and presses them to write it with confidence and with the upmost passion. It doesn’t matter if its acting, poetry, or novel writing, she never wants women to have to fight for what a society should praise as is. 



