---
layout: post
title: My Take on The Nested Precarities of Creative Labor on Social Media
excerpt: I elaborate on how creators face instability with markets, industries, and platforms
author: elizabeth-doulas
pullquote: How small creators are struggling in today's industry
---
“The Nested Precarities of Creative Labor on Social Media,” (Duffy, Pinch, Sannon, Sawey, 2021), delves into the current state of work for content creators. The article describes how unstable the work environment is, with unpredictability in markets, industries, and platforms.

Instead of focusing on what they actually want to post, many creators are forced to post what the market wants to see. One Tiktok creator said, “‘As a creator, that’s the hard part. What are people going to engage with? What’s gonna resonate with them’”, (p. 5). This lack of control in knowing the market is incredibly challenging for the creator. Many are operating as a business, trying to market themselves and build a customer base, while not having the resources or support of an actual business. While some social media platforms provide helpful analytics about posts, supporting an individual creator’s business isn’t their main focus. Social media sites typically focus on getting people engaging with their app, being able to collect information about their users, and advertising engagement on their site. While supporting creators can lead to more users of their platform, ultimately the creators’ interests don’t perfectly align with the platforms’.

The second unpredictability the article discusses is that of the industry. The authors discuss how platforms disappear and change overnight, sometimes without notifying creators. One creator talks about the danger of only using one app, and that “‘if you don’t have a backup plan, you’re done,’” (p. 6). Not only is this scary if an app like Vine disappears, but also poses the risk of losing popularity or getting banned. As consumers shift between platforms, it is also crucial for creators to widen the scope of their brand in different apps. What’s tricky in this situation is that these creators are often acting alone. Without the platforms really on their team, they are running their businesses by themselves. In this space, there appears to be room for small-scale influencer agents to guide creators and act as a middleman between the creators and the platforms. While creator and platform goals don’t align 100%, both are looking for more engagement and followers, and could assist each other more.

The third main unknown creators face is platforms. Since the creators and platforms aren’t on the same team, there can be frustrations when they’re working in the same space. “Some interviewees expressed frustration that when a platform did announce a change to their features, communication was often unclear, leaving more questions than answers,” (p. 6). The platform isn’t the creator's company. Creators often make their money from brand deals and product promotion. So while keeping creators happy is good for the platform, because more creators means hopefully more followers they’re keeping on the app, the platform isn’t looking out for creators as much as they would for employees. Considering this avenue of work is also relatively new, there aren’t many guidelines for platform/creator transparency. This allows different sites to all be lackadaisical in their approach to dealing with creators, so that creators get used to being treated this way all over. 

However, it’s interesting to think about what the platform actually owes the creator. It’s true that the platform would be out of business if there were no creators or followers, so the platform does need the creators. But the creators also use the platforms for their own purposes. They don’t care about Instagram making more money, so long as Instagram continues to exist for the creator’s own business purposes. The same is true in the reverse; Instagram doesn’t care about the creator’s success, as long as Instagram still has creators to keep followers on the site. 

Due to the amount of users and creators on many of these huge platforms like Instagram, Tiktok, and Twitter, the small creators disappear. Bigger creators are relevant enough on multiple sites, and this typically leads to their success in other areas (creating their own coffee company, podcast, clothing brand, etc.), that this instability isn’t as scary for them. The people this article sheds light on are in a place where they are incredibly reliant on one social media platform, don’t have an agent to handle marketing their consumer base, and don’t have a good backup option if becoming an influencer doesn’t work out. Considering how this is such a new job avenue, there is a lot of room for building a more supportive network for these emerging creators.
