---
layout: post
title: Feedback on "Playing and Reality"
excerpt: 
author: sean-purcell
---

In assigning D. W. Winnicott's *Playing and Reality*, I had hoped to engage with a line of thinking that emerged in the post-war period: that play was an important part of human development which needed to be engaged. I discussed this some in the feedback to the blog posts about Carol Stroehecker's essay, "Knots", so I won't go into as much detail here.

What I was struck by, when I started rereading D. W. Winnicott's influential book, was that couched in Winnicott's implicit critique of Freudian psychoanalysis, were a series of ideas that have not aged well. Winnicott's thinking is deeply sexist, ableist, homophobic, and transphobic. It is emblematic of the period in which he was working, and at the implicit ideas which defined psychoanalysis in the twentieth century. 

Winnicott, as a medical professional, describes his patients through the language of pathology: that is, he sees his patients as diseased—-pathology is the study of disease--and he sees the therapeutic work as a means to help cure them. Pathology, in this framework, sees uncommon phenomena as aberrant, atypical, and thus needing to be cured. It is important to note, however, that contemporary discourses regarding the fluidity of mental processes between people (neurodivergence), as well as the broad spectrum of sexuality and gendered representation, push against the pathologization of difference.

These concerns contextualized, Azzam and Arielle do great work summarizing and distilling the helpful parts of Winnicott's otherwise cringeworthy scholarship. Azzam, in his blog post, writes,

>The document posits that play is not merely a frivolous or leisurely activity but a fundamental aspect of human behavior that bridges the internal landscapes of our minds with the external realities we navigate daily. At its core, the thesis suggests that through play, individuals can explore their identity, resolve inner conflicts, and foster creativity, ultimately leading to profound personal growth and healing. This view challenges the traditional psychoanalytic emphasis on pathology, proposing instead that play offers a transformative power essential for therapeutic processes.

For Winnicott, play is both analytical mode and therapeutic practice: he can read the needs of a subject based on how they play, and also use this semi-structured, "transitional" space to help process through trauma. Azzam, again, writes, "Revisiting the document’s insights, it becomes clear that challenging these perceptions is crucial for fostering environments that embrace play as essential for well-being at all ages. Emphasizing the transformative power of play can lead to a cultural shift, one that values play for its profound impact on personal development, creativity, and emotional resilience." Seeing play as valuable, *world building*, and *self building* means that we can shift our approach to how and why we play in our everyday lives. We can make it meaningful.

Arielle's summary of the work goes into more detail about the transitional object--"These objects represent the first “not-me” possession, facilitating the child’s transition from total dependence to a stage off independence and the recognition of a reality outside of themselves. They play a crucial role in helping the child deal with separation anxiety, develop creativity, and establish the capacity for being alone, all of which are essential for healthy psychological development." The transitional object becomes the thing that Winnicott rests his whole theory. These objects which are both within and without, the self and the other, become a tangible expression of play, and his theory.

But there is an issue, which Arielle describes in detail, which is that Winnicott's model overemphasizes the transitional object in the model he articulates. If play is defined only through this object (something which she sees in some but not all children), then what is to be done about all the elements of play that might be learned after anyone is weened off of breastfeeding. She writes,

>While I overall agree with the points Winnicott is making about transitional objects and their impact on childhood and even that going into adult hood/independence, I think that it overemphasizes their importance and overlooks other crucial factors in emotional and psychological development- such as social interactions and environmental influences. I believe that if you compared social interactions, environmental influences and transitional objects, the object may even have the least impact of the three. One off the examples given was with a child’s blankie which could serve as a comfort for them in times of anxiety. I have seen and worked with many kids who have something like that, in fact one of my little brothers had multiple blankies and a little stuffed dog that he had to bring EVERYWHERE for the first 3 years off his life he would not sleep without them either, but he soon let go of that. For me however, I do not recall ever having any transitional objects in my own life, but I was encouraged to play a lot as a kid which helped me to expand my creativity and find my independence more. 

Arielle's critique is helpful because it points to an essentializing problem in the text: all humans *must* have the same experience, so they *must* then have the same reaction. By placing so much weight on this moment, Winnicott's argument begins to sag when any other potential moment of play may come into being. Part of this is because the psychoanalist is working on an overarching theory of play (so it will always crumble to nuance). The other part, though, is that it also helps leave open for how we as creatives might be able to understand our own play. As we might be able to teach ourselves to play, perhaps with Winnicott's framework, but without all of the developmental, Freudian baggage which Winnicott is tied.