---
layout: post
title: "Behind The Screens"
excerpt: This blog talks about the precarities and the complexities of lives of writers
author: khushi-monga
pullquote:
---

**BEHIND THE SCREENS**

In the glitz and glamour of Hollywood, where bright stories and artists unfold, there is often a group of people who are overshadowed by the limelight – writers. Behind films, TV shows, and web series, some heroes are unsung and stand at the backbone of the project, yet others struggle for fair compensation, recognition, and rights. In this blog, we explore the lives of these silent characters involved in the stories of any production. 

In the ever-evolving field of entertainment, the traditional modes of streaming have been the pioneers and have entertained viewers for ages. They entice people for the vast content cherished by audiences worldwide, including cartoons, anime, sitcoms, comedy, drama shows, reality shows, and the list can go on for longer. They run for long time frames, for more episodes and more seasons. With the schedules, familiar actors, reliability, and the timeless appeal of sitting back with their family together, traditional shows have maintained their place in the hearts of viewers. The youth, however, prefer web shows due to their comfort, convenience, and accessibility: just click a button, and immerse in the genre of your choice. 

With more work and effort to manage viewers and have them stick to the network till the episode streams, earlier, writers' pay was higher. Warren Light said in his interview, “When we write an SVU, we have five commercial breaks in an hour of TV. Something has to happen at the end of each act to make sure people have to come back.” He conveys how one has to work diligently and creatively on each episode for traditional TV, unlike the new age web streaming platforms – he further elaborates – where there is no concern about commercial breaks, and the writers can express creativity in a free manner, and ensure the kind of flow, they would like to deliver and believe that the audience would like to see.

The concept of residual income holds value and significance in traditional streaming for content creators, writers, actors, and directors. It stands as an important source of income for writers because it is the royalty earned by them when the content they contributed to, is re-aired or licensed for additional distribution beyond its original airing. Residual income is a means to sustain livelihood and allows constant incentives for the creation of good content previously made. Unlike traditional streaming platforms, once content is sold to the web streaming platform, all creators involved receive a one-time payment or licensing fee, and do not get a time-to-time or periodic payments even if their content is re-watched by people continuously, multiple times, and for long durations. 

Julia Yorks, in her interview, mentions that writers had to find a job, which sustained for almost a year for a Network platform, and need to find multiple projects ever since streaming platforms took over. Erica Saleh says that writers expect and want stability and longevity, which is received when they work for TV shows and maintain the appropriate timeframe and length of web shows. 

I agree with their perspectives, that one-time payment for their job is not the appropriate fee they deserve, considering the long periods for which these shows are on the screen and streaming platforms, and the number of people that watch them continuously, and rewatch them. Writers must be compensated for their work, which made people come back to their show, not once, but multiple times, and also spread the word about it to their family and friends.

The write-strike of 2023 was one of the major interruptions to the American film and television industries since the COVID-19 pandemic, the Production of projects by production houses caused the termination of staff and a decrease in budget, and also the substitution of human writing with AI-generated scripts was the writers’ concern. This fear of being jobless, having their work obstructed, and their creativity blocked because of the rise of AI is just unfair to the people who made a living out of it. 

In creative jobs, in the entertainment industry, there is often a long dry period when artists have no work and depend on their last project income and their savings. It is unjust that they’re not fairly compensated for the amount of traction their content brings for the production. I believe that there must be flowing work or allowed opportunities, or a program for all writers and other artists to be compensated for the efforts they put in, which doesn’t make them seasonally unemployed. As far as the question of AI killing their creativity is concerned, the writers have a job which involves human understanding, empathy, and psychology. While AI may be able to write good scripts, writers add a human touch and can think creatively with boundless imagination for appropriate events and absolutely according to the requirements of the director and producer and suit the character for the role. 

In conclusion, the lives of writers amidst strikes and dry periods, reveal a complex interplay between creativity, commerce, and emerging technological advancements. As one navigates deeply, through the precarities of being a writer, one develops appreciation for the resilience and tenacity of these people who work as the backbone of the entertainment industry, and understand their plight and the support they deserve, emotionally as well as financially.
