---
layout: post
title: Reflection on Takemoto's Open Wounds
excerpt: Takemoto’s methods of replication only leads her to more pain, and she still can never fully grasps what Angela is going through
author: wyatt-stratton
---
"Open Wounds" is a story about the author, Tina Takemoto, and her friend Angela dealing with illness. As Angela undergoes chemotherapy, Takemoto becomes deeply involved in their shared project. Takemoto makes efforts to replicate the emotions and physical changes that Angela’s is going through, but she loses herself when doing so. Takemoto goes so far and even hospitalizes herself when trying to replicate how Angela is feeling. The narrative revolves around the consequences of this act, raising questions about trauma, identity, and ethical responsibility. 

In Takemoto’s project, she takes efforts to try and replicate Angela’s experiences. In her first act, she uses jam to try and replicate a scar on Angela’s chest from surgery. Although the replication appears to be accurate in the photo, I do not believe that it is a successful attempt at trying to replicate the emotions that she is going through. 
<br>
<br>
To continue with her attempt at replicating Angela’s emotions, Takemoto tapes matches on her arms to try and replicate the needle that was in Angela’s arm for Chemotherapy. She then lights these matches to try and replicate the physical scars that are present on Angela’s body. This attempt at replicating Angela’s experience is quite interesting, and It appears to be very confusing at first glance. Although I believe this is the closest she can get to replicating the physical pain and suffering that Angela has been going through, I still am not convinced that Takemoto can replicate the same feeling and emotions that Angela has been going though in Chemo. While Takemoto is trying to put herself in Angela’s shoes, you can never fully replicate the pain and suffering someone experiences when going through this type of illness. 
<br>
<br>
In addition with her photos to replicate Angelas physical appearances, Takemoto also cuts off her hair while trying to replicate Angela. I believe this act was very supportive, and it shows that she is trying make her feel not alone. In response to this act Takemoto states “Yet, in the back of my mind I wondered if all this was indeed a show of force against malady or just an absurd masquerade. As Angela’s health began to worsen, the agency we initially felt through our collaborative efforts gave way to figuring out how to cope, how to respond at all”(108). Takemoto makes it clear that she will never be able to fully replicate Angela’s emotions and experiences, but she tries to get a glimpse of what Angela is feeling.
<br>
<br>
As Takemoto reflects on her actions, she recognizes the limitations of her attempts to fully understand Angela's emotions and experiences. Cutting her hair and engaging in other efforts are ways for Takemoto to catch glimpses of Angela's journey, attempting to bridge the gap between their realities. The narrative highlights the challenges in truly grasping the depth of pain and suffering experienced by someone going through such a difficult illness. Takemoto acknowledges that, while her efforts are sincere, they can only offer a partial understanding of Angela's emotions. Takemoto's journey with Angela reveals the pain of navigating illness, emphasizing the significance of genuine support, even when faced with limitations in replicating the full depth of someone else's emotions.

Overall, I am not sure what to make of Takemoto’s project. I understand that she is trying to help her friend cope with her illness, but I am not sure if this is an effective way of doing so. Her methods of trying to recreate Angela’s experiences only leads to more pain and suffering, and even puts Takemoto in the hospital. I feel that Takemoto losses touch with reality for a second when focusing on this project. If Takemoto truly knows that she will never be able to replicate Angela’s experiences and emotions, then what is that point in trying? Takemoto’s methods of replication only leads her to more pain, and she still can never fully grasps what Angela is going through. 
