---
layout: post
title: “Writers Strike and creativity”
excerpt: “How Streaming effected the Writers Strike”
author: isabella-aranda
---

The writers’ strike went on for about 148 days. I remember when it was over and there was happiness, they can get new good quality television shows again. Writers who can get better pay. I also remember feeling disappointed that it took that long to make a fair change. The situations brought up discussions of how the strike was dealt with and why the strike was happening. I never really had a clear idea until watching the video. I still felt writers deserved pay because they can create a world that makes an audience engaged, they do work throughout the projects but feels strange how they can be put to the side. From the Vox video, “How Streaming caused the TV writers Strike” the audience gets the background of how the writers’ work. On television, there’s series that go from September to May, making a season, an average of 40 weeks, that’s 40 weeks of pay for a writer. An average episode has about 5 commercials. So, writer must write going in that pattern to make viewers come back. For streaming there’s a different way of going about a season. Instead of 40 weeks, production takes less time and can be 20 weeks or 8 weeks. Less time for writers to be needed, as well as actors. That means that writers and actors must find more jobs within the year. For writers it’s difficult due to making the 20 weeks even shorter, for the people in charge of the projects, cut out the writers during the project to save money, rather than pay fairly. Since there’s streaming production has become faster paced, which is good for more voices to be involved in the industry. Unfortunately, it also means an expectation for different standards. For some reason it leads to cutting corners and paying writers less, because too much content is out at a time. Before streaming, workers were able to have a stable career and can live off the project. Instead, there I an issue of less work and splitting the work even more rather giving it more quality. 

I agree that there’s an issue. I also see that there’s problems in the industries. I feel that with everything that ages there’s more room to make it modern and find solutions. I feel for television streaming has become more connivant, I also feel that it’s become more problematic. They charge unnecessary prices and to gain more profit rather than being reasonable. When viewing the strike, they are also being treated unfairly in a place where they feel they have made it and not have to worry, now all they do is worried. Choices like this kill the motivation of anyone to produce good work if their work is not being rewarded. I feel like viewing so many careers for people have become difficult because there’s a promise when your young and then to be disappointed by the outcome. Drives people to think why even continue, a deep depression occurs. A feeling that truly makes you feel alone when there’s no resource of help or trust. I feel when it comes to the strike, why does it take so long for change? Why would someone want it worse for others? For what? To prove that it’s tough. Why make it difficult because others had it difficult? I believe in effort, but I also believe that there are ways to no longer suffer. Relating the strike to creativity is that it doesn’t get more creative than to conjure a story from your mind and releasing it out, what started out as paper to turn into something on screen. There’s an importance to the art in this skill because there are thoughts in our brains that aren’t something that can expressed in words. Anyone can create because creating is a practice. I feel most people can express with words, but I feel most of my generation has a hard time expressing with words, due to our exposer to digital media. We have other ways to connect and relate. To create and be inspiring is a way for us to connect and say what w can’t. A way we can be small because issue is that there’s so much to be censored. We see our history and the mistakes that are made, and we view it being repeated and small voices are covered. The motive isn’t because it’s disagreeable, but the real motive is there’s no money. There were people in the strike who are creative but their voices are over shadowed by those who have money or want to keep their money, rather than making a healthy world with those who have voices that need to be shared. 

