---
layout: post
title: A complex history to such a simple task
excerpt: 
author: Cybernetic Forests
pullquote:
image:
---

Response to part one of the article:
This article discusses that in our world, with this new technology, we often perceive AI as an incredible, illustrious thing. However, what we fail to realize is that it is not just a modern creation, and has ties back into the slave trade. Generative AI is fascinating because we view it as this recently trendy, thing, if you will, that we are yet to discover all the little tidbits about. But when you look a little bit deeper, you see that it is not as it appears on the surface, and there is an interesting bit of information surrounding its history. What I found so fascinating was how AI, something when I hear the name AI I think of social media, and using artificial intelligence to make art, drawings, and other sorts of stuff, is so rich in history and is linked to the slave trade. Something so new is linked to something so old? That was very interesting for me, and it was enticing to learn about it while reading the article. Edward Lloyd’s Coffee Shop played a huge role in this, as it served as a gathering place for sailors, merchants, and shipowners to meet to discuss the slave trade and other things of that sort. Coming from out of left field, the insurance industry entered the conversation when wealthy businessmen and sea captains began placing bets and wagers on whether or not their ships and human cargo would survive on these long trans-Atlantic trips. I mean “insurance” because the ships would be “insured” when someone would say that the ship would survive the voyage, and they would wager their money in that favor. All within a little coffee shop, this conversation began to boom, and eventually people would predict what they thought would happen and would utilize deeper means of analyzing if the ships would make it, and an industry was born. The author compares how thought out this “gambling” was and how factored in all circumstances were, and how they were analyzed to look for patterns, as to generative AI, and predictive technology as a whole. That was the most fascinating part for me, how something as old and dated as the slave trade was compared to generative AI. Well, I was reading this article. I was completely and utterly lost. I thought my eyes were deceiving me and that article made no sense. However, the further I read the further that I understood, and this is one of the more fascinating stories I’ve learned. I understand that the article talks about other things and different themes, but I felt that this was just so interesting and that if I even look at myself, I gamble and I bet on sports multiple times a week. (I do this safely and I am not addicted, I am up a lot of money and think it’s fun, but if I begin to lose money I will stop). To give you a real example, last Friday I bet five dollars that Dejounte Murray, a star player for the Atlanta Hawks, would score a total of more than 11 assists(passing the ball to someone and having them score), and rebounds (catching the ball after somebody (on either team) shoots the ball) combined. I bet that he would have more than 11 Assists plus rebounds together, and I paired that with Lebron James scoring more than 1.5 3-pointers. When I made that bet, I was sitting in my bed, looking at the games for the day, trying to make a little money. Little did I know, that I was engaging in some of the predictive analysis that was present in the 1600s that originated from a little coffee shop. The people who originated this predictive analysis and threw the butterfly effect allowed gambling on sports to be created, have directly contributed to people, losing generations of money, and their life savings, and have ruined many lives. Aside from the slave trade, which is obviously really, really bad, the lives of millions of people worldwide have been altered just because of the select people who were present in the creation of this betting and wagering taking place in this coffee shop. The biggest theme that I felt present in the article was how rich in history all of this is, and that is the biggest takeaway that I got from it. With my personal connection to gambling, which I again practice very safely and securely, I found it interesting how the origins of something that seems so simple, clicking a couple of buttons on your phone and wagering a couple of dollars to make a few dollars, could be linked to something so historically significant in our development as a country as the slave trade. If you had put me on Jeopardy and my question was “things that have originated from the slave trade for 1000”, I think there is absolutely zero chance that I would’ve guessed gambling. Whether it’s sports betting or gambling in an online casino, it is truly fascinating how such a simple act has such a complex history.
