---
layout: post
title: Response to Winnicott's Playing and Reality
excerpt: 
author: arielle-wisne
pullquote:
image:
---

The thesis of this excerpt from “Playing and Reality” by D.W Winnicott revolves around the significance of transitional objects and phenomena I the development of a child’s understanding of the world and development in it. Winnicott argues that these objects play a crucial role in the transition from being merged with their mother to recognizing the existence of a reality outside of oneself. Transitional objects serve as a bridge between the child’s internal and external worlds, facilitating both emotional and psychological growth. Throughout the excerpt, Winnicott focuses on transitional objects and phenomena while discussing their importance in the developmental process of children. The whole concept discussed throughout really emphasizes the significance of the transitional objects in facilitating a child’s journey towards independence and emotional maturity. Winnicott believes that this I sell important because it highlights a fundamental aspect of early emotional and psychological development in children. These objects represent the first “not-me” possession, facilitating the child’s transition from total dependence to a stage off independence and the recognition of a reality outside of themselves. They play a crucial role in helping the child deal with separation anxiety, develop creativity, and establish the capacity for being alone, all of which are essential for healthy psychological development. This understanding helps caregivers and psychologists support children’s emotional growth more effectively. If I were to summarize this article into one sentence it would be: children use special objects like toys to bridge their inner feelings and the outside world, aiding their emotional and creative growth.

Throughout the excerpt, Winnicott does not directly argue against a specific theory or person. Instead, his work primarily builds upon and extends existing psychoanalytic theories by adding his unique insights into the significance of transitional objects and phenomena in child development. Through his exploration of these concepts, he implicitly challenges any developmental theories that overlook the importance of these transitional obejcts and play. Winnicott’s emphasis is on the nuanced understanding of early emotional development, rather than a direct refutation of other theories. 

Although I would say the main focus of these excerpts was on transitional objects and the role of play in a developmental environment, I wanted to point out the other main themes throughout. Winnicott also explores themes such as the development off true self versus false self and the importance of a holding environment. He discusses how these elements contribute to the child’s capacity to relate to the world, manage separation, and develop a sense of identity. Winnicott emphasizes the significance of play as a space where reality and fantasy intersect, enabling children to experiment with control, creativity, and the integration of their experience.

While I overall agree with the points Winnicott is making about transitional objects and their impact on childhood and even that going into adult hood/independence, I think that it overemphasizes their importance and overlooks other crucial factors in emotional and psychological development- such as social interactions and environmental influences. I believe that if you compared social interactions, environmental influences and transitional objects, the object may even have the least impact of the three. One off the examples given was with a child’s blankie which could serve as a comfort for them in times of anxiety. I have seen and worked with many kids who have something like that, in fact one of my little brothers had multiple blankies and a little stuffed dog that he had to bring EVERYWHERE for the first 3 years off his life he would not sleep without them either, but he soon let go of that. For me however, I do not recall ever having any transitional objects in my own life, but I was encouraged to play a lot as a kid which helped me to expand my creativity and find my independence more. 

Throughout this excerpt covering Chapter 3 off Winnicott’s “Playing and Reality”, we get to explore the idea that special objects like toys or blankets are more crucial than just playthings; they are crucial or a child’s development. Winnicott shows us that these objects help children deal with big feelings and the world around them, acting as a comforting bridge between their own thoughts and reality. This concept not only makes us think back to our own childhoods and the items that we may have held dear, but also emphasizes the importance id such objects in fostering creativity and emotional resilience. Winnicott’s insights remind us of the deep connection to play, imagination, and our growth into well-rounder individuals. His work enriches our understanding of childhood and its lasting impact on who we become.
