---
layout: post
title: “What does Grief Feel Like?”
excerpt: “Takemoto experiences this side of mourning as she expresses it through self harm, particularly when she taped matches to her arm and lit them. At first, Takemoto believes she did this as an “art project” in an attempt to “rhyme” with the effects of chemotherapy on Angela. Takemoto later takes a step back and understands this as an expression of mourning which was blurred by her skewed logic of “artwork”. Although artwork takes many forms, the form in which it took on Takemoto’s skin was one stemming from her own problems with grief.”
author: Sam Volz
pullquote: “Tina Takemoto in "Open Wounds" argues for a deeper understanding of grief, trauma, and illness, particularly in how they intersect and manifest in personal experiences. She emphasizes the complexity of mourning and trauma, highlighting how they involve an oscillation between crises of death and life, and the enduring impact they have on individuals.”
---
The piece “Open Wounds”, by Tina Takemoto delves into the understandings of grief, trauma, and illness as she explores her own personal experiences as well as insight from proclaimed authors. Takemoto is an artist and performer that performed with her partner Angela in the early 1990’s. During this time, Angela was diagnosed with Hodgkin's disease, a form of cancer that affects the lymph system. Through her work she discusses her experiences with grief and illness, and what her own expressions of grief taught her about the subject. The main idea that she develops is that grief and illness are processed and expressed in many ways, where they affect the individual both emotionally, and physically.  The friends and family of sick individuals and individuals mourning for others are emotionally damaged, and that damage is viable to spread to the physical. Takemoto experiences this as her partner worsens in sickness. Takemoto expresses her grief and melancholia through self harm, as she damages her skin through burning and other methods. In this way, Takemoto is expressing solidarity for her friend and trying to understand what she is going through. In doing this, she is trying to take away from the emotional burden that grief and mourning bare, and convert it to physical pain that eventually heals itself. The difference between physical and emotional damage is that for a healthy individual physical damage will heal itself, however emotional damage like grief can stick with a person forever. As the author mentions, the process of mourning is the process of detaching oneself from the sick or deceased individual. It is severing mental connections and memories made with the person, in an attempt to remove the yearning for said person. The more burdensome process of mourning is something that Takemoto experiences herself. Melancholia is the process of mourning in which the individual is unable to process the loss, and therefore unable to overcome it. It takes form as an open wound that constantly reminds the person of the hole in their life. Takemoto experiences this side of mourning as she expresses it through self harm, particularly when she taped matches to her arm and lit them. At first, Takemoto believes she did this as an “art project” in an attempt to “rhyme” with the effects of chemotherapy on Angela. Takemoto later takes a step back and understands this as an expression of mourning which was blurred by her skewed logic of “artwork”. Although artwork takes many forms, the form in which it took on Takemoto’s skin was one stemming from her own problems with grief. Tina Takemoto in "Open Wounds" argues for a deeper understanding of grief, trauma, and illness, particularly in how they intersect and manifest in personal experiences. She emphasizes the complexity of mourning and trauma, highlighting how they involve an oscillation between crises of death and life, and the enduring impact they have on individuals. Through her personal reflections and scholarly insights, Takemoto suggests that trauma functions as a "double wound," where breaches of consciousness resurface in acts of self-injury as individuals grapple with experiences beyond comprehension. Furthermore, she suggests that art can serve as a means of processing and representing grief, offering a form of work and love within the realm of intersubjectivity.
	Takemotos “Open Wounds” is a very intriguing and thought provoking read that opened my eyes to a lot of concepts I was unfamiliar with. I agree with what the author is saying and I can even trace back to instances in my own life where I now understand the causes of my actions because of her. The loss of someone influential in one's life is an incomprehensible feeling that in some aspects, never goes away. This grief can cause people to do things out of the ordinary for them to try to shake this feeling. In my own experiences, I used to grieve all the time. When I was young grief took over my life in a way that I still can not comprehend as an adult. Whenever I saw someone homeless, someone hurt, or someone sad, it consumed my life. Driving home in the car I recall seeing homeless people and not knowing how to deal with it. I would lay in bed thinking about it, getting emotional over it, and often taking out other people's sufferings on myself. As I got older, and began understanding society, systems, and how the world worked this strong feeling of sorrow for everyone I saw suffering left me. I think about this time in my life every so often but this essay really brought me back to how I used to feel. I now understand that this feeling was due to a strong sense of grief and connection I felt to everyone at a young age, that was held so strong because of how little I understood about the world. 
	Tina Takemoto’s “Open Wounds” traces Takemotos steps in understanding the process of grief and illness as she experiences it with her partner first hand. The insights from other authors, and from her experiences with the world give the reader a look into how grief takes shape, and how even the deepest wounds can be overcome. 
