layout: post
title: spinning response
excerpt: spinning
author: Rio-Walkine
pullquote:
The excerpt spinning is very complex and has many great perspectives on burn out, identity, coming out, and the hardships of failure in one’s desired passion. Tillie experiences all of this throughout the excerpt and shows us her own journey through all of it. Tillie chooses to focus on the challenge and discomfort that she faces through her competitive ice skating. These challenges consisted of her coming to terms with her sexuality, her difficult parental relationship, and the bullying and harassment she was getting from classmates and teammates. I feel like Tillie makes her story very relatable in the way she describes her experiences and allows readers to truly feel how she felt in her moments. Tillie Walden’s “Spinning” can come off very sad and down but after looking into what is really trying to be expressed it becomes a story about a girl who faced and survived all those hardships and challenges. Overall, the excerpt is more than just getting over the rough parts of your life but it’s more about leaving behind who you were to become who you are. She learns her true self more and more after every experience, making her stronger and stronger. Tilli’s objective could be mistaken for sharing memories but really, she is sharing a feeling with her audience. All the themes of family, coming out, and bullying from teammates come together in how she is feeling and how her experience was like with each of them. To summarize “Spinning” I would say it is about the life of Tille as a competitive skater as she deals with trying to find the right romance for her, parental relationship problems, and bullying as well. These experiences allowed her to learn and shape her into a stronger, smarter, and confident woman. Even with her hardships she didn’t just overcome them, but she also allowed those obstacles to become a part of who she is and what she has been through. 
From my perspective I completely agree with Tillie. I believe that everyone has to go through some kind of challenge in life whether it’s emotional, physical, or even life changing for some. Tillie’s experience was relatable to my own and could be a lot more relatable to others as well which is why I agree with what her overall goal Is. She expressed her emotional burn outs, her anxiety about what to do next, her feelings of failure and embarrassment along with the select people in life who choose to make others feel less of themselves which Tillie experienced. I’ve had many life changing experiences and I’ve felt like I failed so many times. Tillie seemed to be numb in a sense where she was so done with everything and couldn’t even help or know what to feel. I know what that exact feeling is like and what It comes from. But as I’ve gotten a way better understanding of Tilli’s feelings it allowed me to also realize why I was feeling like I had failed back then. I think it’s because I wasn’t accepting who I was, and I couldn’t find myself. But just as Tillie did, I was able to engage with multiple activities that started to motivate me more and strengthen my mental health. I feel like identity and self-discovery are perfect ways to find who you really are along with all your hardships and challenges that add on to that as well. I don’t think I ever got confused about what she was trying to express and fully understood where she was coming from. I wanted to reference where Tillie was crying with her eyes wide open. This may seem like just a regular cry or a regular sad moment but to me this was a flashback. I remember doing the same thing after putting in close to the same amount of effort and work as Tillie did and once it was time to test my skills, I couldn’t make the cut. This was also on top of the normal high school stress, relationship issues, a loss in the family that was incredible life changing and a part time job. If I could describe how I felt, it would be burnt out literally. Burnt out of emotions, out of effort, and super out of power mentally. This part of my life was easily the worst because I felt I was at my weakest point and I think that’s why Tillie’s message is so important because she shows that even at your weakest and most vulnerable points in life you can always get back up and take in all of the fails and all of the challenges and make them apart of who you are and allow it to be your main advantage in life and your main motivation factor. As I see it, it’s a never-ending cycle. In today’s world you’re never free of discrimination, judgement, failure, losses, or anything of that nature. Its about how you respond to these challenges that makes you, you. 
