---
layout: post
title: Reflection on Takemoto's Open Wounds
excerpt: My personal take on the meaning of wounds in the creative field
author: sara-thompson
pullquote: “[another excerpt that will be seen on the blog’s navigation page]”
---
 There are times in our lives when we get so caught up in projects or feelings that we forget ourselves and our needs. We are so busy or so infatuated with an activity that nothing else matters. That feeling is exactly what Tina Takemoto addresses in “Open Wounds”. Takemoto details her experience of getting caught up in a project that she winds up in an emergency room after taping matches to her arm and lighting them. 
 
 Takemoto collaborated on Imag(in)ed Malady with her best friend Angela Ellsworth, as always, but this project was a bit different. This project was centered around Ellsworth’s experience with Hodgkin’s Lymphoma and the effect that it had on her body. They took pictures of Ellsworth’s scars and then Takemoto would replicate them to the best of her abilities with outside materials. In the end they put these two pictures side-by-side. Throughout, Takemoto was just trying to be a supportive and loving friend to Ellsworth, but in that she lost herself. She became completely immersed in being a sympathetic and empathetic person to the point that she ended up in the hospital herself. Through telling her story of  confronting Ellsworth’s illness, Takemoto argues that wounds tell us more about emotions and feelings than we can verbally express.
 
Takemoto coped with her best friend’s illness by mirroring every step of it to the best of her ability; she cut her hair, shaved her head, mimicked wounds, and left with her own battle scars. It originally comes off as Takemoto attempting to be a supportive friend, in both her own eyes and the reader's eyes. After she ended up in the hospital, it really became clear to her that it was her coping mechanism. Her art showed her the process of grief and how she experienced the illness of a loved one. While creating, Takemoto didn’t realize how she was truly feeling, but the scars left from the matches do. They say something that she could never express. Those scars represent the human experience. 

Growing up my family always called scars “adventure marks”. In all honesty, I don’t know where this came from, but it was my family’s way of embracing them. Scars are marks that tell stories that I can’t even remember, but they are a piece of me. They are a piece of my life. So many of these so-called adventure marks represent moments of intense pain or major fear, moments where I didn’t have the ability to honestly express my emotions. That is what scars do, whether they are visible or not. There is something so intimate about these marks, you can see that someone has been through a traumatic experience without even acknowledging it. You can know this information without ever even having a conversation with that individual. When we think of scars from this perspective, it is easy to agree with Takemoto. To even be able to make her argument, she had to experience, process, reflect on her pain, and honestly confront her emotions. Her scars express what she was feeling before she could even understand it. Her actions spoke significantly louder than her words.
 
Takemoto’s story as a whole resonated with me, but her expression of confusion of “How did I get here?” after her trip to the emergency room is the moment that stuck out to me the most. In our lives we can get very caught up in a cycle and until we are forced to step out of it, we don’t realize how much harm it was causing us. That could be schoolwork, projects, stress, relationships, friendships, almost anything. We get chasing what’s next to the point where we lose ourselves and what matters to us. It’s a similar story to one we hear with a person chasing success, but that centers around a theme of jealousy. Takemoto’s story is centered around love and empathy, which caused me to think differently about it. Takemoto was doing what she loved with who she loved and yet she went through that same process of what some would call burnout. She put so much effort and so much of herself in this project and her friendship with Ellsworth that there was nothing left but pain for her at the end. She never stopped to process her own emotions or be her own person, which she learned was necessary in order to create art successfully. Takemoto’s scars have now become their own work of art, visually expressing the complexities of creativity, collaboration, and love. 
