layout: post
title: "my take on knots"
excerpt: The author loves knots, but it is just weird.
author: Carol-Strohecker
pullquote: 
I think that the thesis of this text significantly revolves around the presence of knots, and how the author speaks about her personally teaching how to tie knots as well as the establishment of a “knot laboratory “ and she really speaks her heart about a knot, something that neither you nor I would bat an eye too and something that we would find very insignificant. However, to her, it’s her whole world which I found very interesting. She’s so passionate about tying a knot in a piece of rope and it really goes to show how some people, find joy and something that somebody else would not even be able to imagine. The author speaks a lot about the significance of knots in her life and states that it’s not just a skill that is practical, but it also signifies personal development in her life. Through the author's life and through the stories that she tells in this piece, we are given the opportunity to be a “fly on the wall” and look into her history. The author speaks a lot about the importance of recognizing and seeing that knots are not, no pun intended, just an insignificant thing. They are not just loops in a piece of rope, they are quite significant actually, and she emphasizes throughout the entire work, how symbolic and interesting they are to her. To me, I could care less about a piece of rope; I could care less about a knot in a line of string. But to her, it’s her whole world. It’s something that she is so passionate about, that she felt the need to write this wonderful piece of literature which we can read to gain some insight into her world. She believes that through knots, she can show personal growth and has implications around Math as well as the field of mathematics. however, the author is not really arguing against an idea, or yet for something larger than itself at all. She really speaks her mind about wishing that there should be a more common understanding of knots, and she urges the people to read her story and to find the significance, as a tool in mathematical, thinking, as well as a creative outlet in which somebody can produce. She advocates for not making things of that sort throughout the entire piece. There’s a large theme of creativity surrounding her significance of knots, and lots of diverse learning styles as well. Do I agree with the author? Absolutely not. I recognize that knots have had a larger impact on her life than mine, and her voice may be projected differently than mine, but I don’t care whatsoever about a loop and a piece of rope. To completely speak my mind I think that it’s really insignificant, and it should be left that way. I think that it’s quite odd and certainly abnormal that this woman is so fascinated by a loop and a piece of rope. One of the things that I try to tell myself sometimes before I speak is “Who cares? “Sometimes I realize that I’m talking for maybe a little little bit too long and The things that I’m saying some people might not care about and that’s OK. This happens with everyone and so I try in my life to control it and to really just ask myself if what I’m about to say is useful. Do people around me care about what I’m going to say? And if the answer is always known, then you might need to make new friends, but I don’t have an issue with that. I just think that for me personally, if I were to explain to my friends, why knots are so cool, they might tell me never to speak again. And they should. I think that this lady is really rambling about knots which are not an important or cool thing that somebody should be writing about. I don’t really know, this distracts me as something very odd. I really don’t understand and truthfully, I don’t want to, why she found knots of all things to be particularly in love with. There are so many better things out there that she could have found fashion in, and unfortunately for her, I think she chose the worst one. She could’ve picked anything else in the world, whether that be art, whether that be travel, whether that be food, whether that be genuinely anything else out there, and she decided to maybe have the worst hobby of all time.
